Once again, we're just going to look at what our model does before training.
So we can see on our test set,
that it's only getting about 13 percent accuracy.
That's pretty close to what you would guess of 10 percent accuracy
given our 10 classes and it has not seen any of the data here.
So the real goal of validation is to see what
the model's performance on data is that
isn't part of that training set we're about to use.
We can actually define as the developer what we want performance to mean.
Typically, this is just accuracy
or the percentage of classes the network predicted correctly.
There are other options such as precision and
recall or top five error rate that can be used.
Again, we'll just focus on accuracy here.
It's pretty straightforward. So now as you can see,
I've already gone ahead and ran the training,
but we'll look at how using this validation data is important.
So now we actually have the validation data coming in with their validation batches.
You might look at this first to say, wait a second,
I thought we weren't going to show the model the validation data.
The training is still occurring on our training batches.
We feed in the validation data here to our
model.fit function so that it can compare their performance at the end.
However, it won't update the weights and biases with that validation set.
It's only on the training set.
These metrics tell us how well our model is learning because it shows how well the model
generalizes to this new validation data
that wasn't used for training that it has not seen yet.
So let's look real quickly at what the accuracy and validation loss appear to be doing.
You'll see the train accuracy starts about 80 percent.
Validation loss is almost non-existent the first time around.
Validation accuracy as well is almost non-existent and we see train accuracy going up.
Let's go all the way down to our last one where we see train accuracy got
95 percent and then validation accuracy stayed at 88 percent.
So that's kind of interesting.
Let's visualize this real quick to make it a little easier.
So again, we can see that the train accuracy above kept
improving and yet the validation
set didn't really seem to improve and had worse accuracy.
That's a pretty clear sign of overfitting.
So our model has basically memorized the training set
so well that when it looks at a new dataset,
it doesn't know what it's seeing.
Again, we can use our model.fit object pretty
easily to get a history of what occurred with our training.
Here you'll see that history.history is
just a dictionary with a record of train accuracy and loss.
The keys here are just loss, accuracy, validation loss,
and validation accuracy, which were getting printed to the terminal before.
So we'll use these to actually plot out the loss and accuracy values throughout training.
You can see here we're just obtaining those dictionary values throughout
how many epics we actually ran training for and we're
plotting them down below with matplotlib's pyplot.
These are pretty interesting graphs.
You can see the training accuracy although it did slightly curl downward towards the end,
that it wasn't training as fast.
The validation accuracy very quickly flattens out and doesn't improve.
In fact, looking at training validation loss,
validation loss actually increased as training went on,
while training loss continue to decrease.
There's clearly some overfitting occurring here.